[WIP] API docs contrib guide (#1592)
elastic/docs-builder: docs/contribute/api-docs-contribution/workflows.md

---
navigation_title: Find your team's workflow
---
# Find the workflow for your API docs

:::{warning}

> This is WIP and apart from the quick reference is just a quick-and-dirty copy/paste from the Confluence doc

Reviewer: > This is WIP and apart from the quick reference is just a quick-and-dirty copy/paste from the Confluence doc

IMO this isn't a good candidate for externalizing. Or if we do need a page like this, I'd suggest:

1. removing any mention of things related to private repos, or "elastic employees only"
2. removing the "Publishing process", "Automated?", and "Status" columns in the table since they're not pertinent to external contributors
3. referring to the appropriate readmes for all the individual process details, for example:
    - Elasticsearch: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-specification?tab=readme-ov-file#how-to-generate-the-openapi-representation
    - Kibana: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/oas_docs/README.md
    -  Observability intake service: https://github.com/elastic/apm-managed-service/blob/main/docs/spec/openapi/README.md
    - ...
5. summarizing the workflow at a high level, since it's essentially the same for all of them:
6.

Author: >  Or if we do need a page like this, I'd suggest:

I do think we need a page like this, but absolutely in accordance with **2-4**

> removing any mention of things related to private repos, or "elastic employees only"

I don't mind that we mention a couple of private repos in a much more condensed and high-level version of this page, same reasoning as https://github.com/elastic/docs-builder/pull/1592#discussion_r2221448069

    
3. Optionally, lint and preview the document. For example, install [redocly](https://redocly.com/docs/cli/installation) and [bump.sh](https://docs.bump.sh/help/continuous-integration/cli/) CLI, then run:
    
    1. `redocly lint logstash-api.yaml --config redocly.yaml`
        
    2. `bump preview logstash-api.yaml`
        
4. Get assistance from someone with admin authority in Bump.sh (reach out on #next-api-reference Slack channel) to deploy the new output file as described in [https://docs.bump.sh/help/publish-documentation/deploy-and-release-management/](https://docs.bump.sh/help/publish-documentation/deploy-and-release-management/) and [Bump.sh API admin instructions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xP_n2AusBhJcLmmJeCZZkAztzeykvkZtJ6la2XHz7Aw/edit?tab=t.0) (Elastic employees only). 
    
    - If the file that you upload is unchanged from the previous one, you will receive a message that there's nothing new to deploy.  
        

### Observability Intake (serverless)

> To publish content to [https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/observability-serverless](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/observability-serverless)

Reviewer: IMO it's better to point to the individual process docs in the appropriate repos, in case they change.

```suggestion
To generate [https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/observability-serverless](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/observability-serverless), refer to the [README](https://github.com/elastic/apm-managed-service/blob/main/docs/spec/openapi/README.md) 
```
